hi guys I'm Laura Vitale and on this
episode of Laura in the kitchen I want
to share with you my recipe for beef
bourguignon or like a beef Burgundy stew
now I'm not by any means saying this is
the traditional like authentic version
this is kind of my objective adaptation
on it because I've never been to France
so this is kind of my take on it the
very first time I had this was in a
amazing French bistro in San Francisco
and it completely stayed with me for
years
since that and I started to kind of play
around with things and make my own
version of it and I think you'll really
love this recipe it's easy to make it's
got an incredible flavor and um it's
just a crowd pleaser
the ingredients are need for the base
and there's additional ingredients which
we'll go to in a little bit later I've
got some Chuck that I've cut that I have
cut into about large sized chunks I also
have got some carrots and onions of the
carrots I kind of kept it nice and big I
also have some garlic that I've just
peeled but I haven't chopped it I've got
some thick sliced bacon that I've
chopped you'll need some beef stock I've
got my beef base back here first time
you'll need some tomato paste some
pepper touch of olive oil you need a
little bit of cognac or brandy and
you'll need some burgundy wine if you
don't have Burgundy you can use Pinot
Noir which is actually what I'm using
today it's a bit more cost-effective I
had on hand so I figured I would use
that and I've used this before and it
works really great
Chianti really works great in this
recipe as well and a quick tip if you
don't want to dish up you know big bucks
for a bottle of cognac or brandy get
yourself on these little nips you know
these are great at the liquor store you
just buy what you need if you're
anything like me I don't just typically
drink cognac or brandy so buy little
ones for cooking really helps I don't
have any waste it's not sitting on my
shelf for a long time when I only needed
a little bit of it anyways I've got a
big pot here preheating over about
medium-high heat in there I'm gonna add
in the bacon and I'm gonna let that
render and get nice and crispy in the
meantime while that's happening
we move some stuff out of the way I'm
going to take my beef to me I have some
all-purpose flour here I'm going to coat
my beef in flour I'm going to season
this with salt and pepper now the flour
does two things it coats the beef so it
gives it a really lovely crust when you
sear it but it also helps thicken the
sauce as well so you know to brick one
stone that kind of thing
I'm just going to take a big spoon and
toss this together to make sure all my
beef is coated in the flour and the salt
and pepper
great let me just fish that out with
like a slotted spoon or something
because you want to keep that they can
step back and fat back there so just
take that out try your hardest not to
eat all of it before you need to put it
back in the pot because raise your hand
if you're guilty of it I'm so notorious
for doing that it's terrible now at this
point if your bacon didn't give out a
lot of fat like mine did mine's got a
few tablespoons of fat in there then you
would go ahead add a bit of a bit of
olive oil but mine gave out quite a bit
about a fat so I'm just going to do this
with my hands I'm gonna put my beef in
there that's been coated with my flour
salt and pepper so good I'm telling you
your house it's just gonna be filled
with the most incredible aroma ever I'm
gonna do this a matches because I don't
want to overcrowd the pan let them cook
for a few minutes and it's all over the
place so that nice and golden brown and
then we'll move on to the next step all
right got all my meat color beautiful
color let me just kind of drizzle a bit
more olive oil now all those brown bits
in there that's called mega flavor so
don't you dare clean that pot I'm gonna
add my veggies and my onion carrot and
whole cloves of garlic season them with
some salt and pepper and the moisture
from the veggies is a help to kind of
release those brown bits stuck at the
bottom of the pan and they're also me
add the liquid it will help as well
gonna give this a good
sir and let the veggies cook for about
five or six minutes or until they
develop some color and start to cook
down a bit
they look good I'm going to add in my
cognac you'll need a quarter cup or so I
would say a whole little nip this is 50
mils and just you can see as soon as you
add the liquid look what happens and you
scrape the bottom of the pan all those
juices just release now I'm going to
make something and talk about this
because I know I'll get a lot of
questions whether or not you can leave
out the wine and the cognac just go
ahead and make a different recipe
because this recipe is you know the
cognac or the brandy and the wine just
add the sweetness that this recipe needs
so if you are not an alcohol drinker
then just make my pot roast or something
else that's a braised beef because you
know this dish is as delicious as it is
because of them because of the wine so I
just added some tomato paste I'm just
stirring that in for about a minute now
I'm going to add in a couple of cups of
wine now traditionally you use an entire
bottle of wine I'm using only a couple
of cups and I'm going to do a couple
cups to stop because now this dish is
traditionally a very sweet kind of stew
and I find that if you add all wine it's
too sweet so I want to balance that by
adding half wine half big stock and the
end result is incredible it's the right
balance when I had this for the first
time it blew me away I heard about it a
lot on TV people cooking it but I never
kind of a I've never had it from a
really good French bistro before so when
I went to San Francisco a few years ago
and I had it I mean it blew me away
and I just been hooked ever since the
only thing I did different is that I cut
what I cut the wine in half so that it's
not so so sweet because it is it is
pretty on the sweet side then I'm going
to add my stock but you guys know I just
add my faith base oh let me grab a small
spoon how dare
be prepared but you know sometimes that
happens what can I say
and this Meister that in we're also
going to add some time now traditionally
this is cooked in the oven I'm just
going to cook it on my stovetop with a
lid on for a few hours or until the beef
is nice and tender sliding the beef and
my bacon right back in I'm going to
bring this to a boil lower it down to
medium-low cover to let it simmer for a
couple of hours or until the beef is
tender be warned that the spell in your
home will be unbelievable trust me it's
something really out of this world
it smells incredible already wait till
this gets going this has been cooking
for about two and hours about two hours
and 15 minutes and you can see I mean it
is gorgeous it's thick the meat is
really nice and tender look I can pretty
much break it apart you can see with a
wooden spoon now we are going to add our
sauteed mushrooms and all their mushroom
e-juices
now make sure to taste this for
seasoning I have tasted this for
seasoning and I can tell you it is
perfect for me because of that salty
bacon we salted the meat we salted the
veggies so there's salt on every layer
so I'm gonna leave it as is and my
onions my parsley I've got some parsley
chopped up here about a quarter cup I
really want that freshness Oh gorgeous
I added my pearl onions they were thawed
this just need to cook together for just
a few minutes just to kind of warm up
those pearl onions I mean look how
gorgeously thick that is and that really
does help it really does come from
coating the beef in flour now I'm just
going to clean up really quickly I've
got some egg noodles that I'm boiling
back there I'm going to toss them a
little bit of butter you can serve this
over anything whether it's mashed
potatoes egg noodles with a potato
gratin on the side anything you want
just to make my life a little bit easier
today I'm going with egg noodles or just
a staple and it's really really easy to
whip together in no time and it's just a
perfect bed for those juices and that
lovely meat my mouth is salivating I'm
going to clean up get the egg noodles
and put this together
that is just incredible I've got my egg
noodles here that I have buttered just
got a little bit fer my husband and I
for dinner show you what this looks like
I mean look at this look at how thick
and gorgeous that is I mean can we just
take a minute to admire ah you can smell
the smokiness from the bacon like
immediately it's just amazing you also
smell the cognac as well let me just go
for the piece of beef right here
you don't even have a Judas and so it
falls apart it's got lovely smoky flavor
you can taste the wine it's not overly
sweet it's got a great balance I hope
that you check out this recipe I hope
that you make it and enjoy it as much as
we do I hope you've enjoyed spending
time with me the recipe will be Omar and
Nick calm and always alright
you